ZCZC MIATWOAT ALL
TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
800 PM EDT Sat Sep 12 2020

For the North Atlantic...Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of Mexico:

The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Tropical 
Storm Paulette and Tropical Depression Rene, both located over the 
central Atlantic Ocean, on Tropical Storm Sally, centered over 
the southeastern Gulf of Mexico, and on newly formed Tropical 
Depression Twenty, located over the eastern Tropical Atlantic. 

1. A surface trough over the north-central Gulf of Mexico is producing 
limited shower activity.  While some slow development of this system 
is possible, strong upper-level winds related to Tropical Storm 
Sally will probably limit the chances of tropical cyclone formation. 
The disturbance is forecast to move westward and then southwestward 
over the northern and western Gulf of Mexico through the next few 
days.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...10 percent. 
* Formation chance through 5 days...low...20 percent.

2. Showers and thunderstorms located near and west of the Cabo Verde 
Islands are associated with a broad area of low pressure.  
Environmental conditions support some additional development, and a 
tropical depression could form over the far eastern tropical 
Atlantic during the next two or three days while the system moves 
slowly west-northwestward. By mid-week, upper-level winds should 
become less conducive for development.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...medium...50 percent. 
* Formation chance through 5 days...medium...60 percent.

Public Advisories on Tropical Depression Twenty are issued under 
WMO header WTNT35 KNHC and under AWIPS header MIATCPAT5.  
Forecast/Advisories on Tropical Depression Twenty are issued under 
WMO header WTNT25 KNHC and under AWIPS header MIATCMAT5.

Forecaster Blake

